[MUSIC]
In this video we're going to look
at a range of Excel functions for
taking data from two or more sources and
combining them into a single cell.
In our scenario Zara has received
a statement from the supplier
detailing all the invoices that
have been paid this month.
She needs to reconcile
this with her system data,
which she has downloaded
into an Excel file.
The problem is a lot of
the data doesn't match.
So for example with her system,
the Payment Reference is made up of
the Invoice Number and the Payment Number.
On the supplier statement, however,
this data is in two separate columns.
Before she can actually
compare these values,
she's going to need to join the Document
Number and the Payment Number.
She's created a column in
which to put the new value,
and we're going to help her do it
using Excel's CONCATENATE function.
Start by clicking into K2 and type "=conc".
If you have 2016 or later,
you will notice there's a brand new CONCAT
function which we'll look at shortly.
But the CONCATENATE is still widely used,
and if you don't have 2016 or
later you're still going
to have to use this.
You'll notice a strange little chevron
here, it is actually being made redundant
so it's still being kept for
backward compatibility.
But if your organization's on the newer
version, you probably want to start moving
to the CONCAT function, but
let's see the CONCATENATE first.
So to select it you could double click,
but I'm going to down arrow and tab.
Now whenever you use an Excel function
it will give you a help prompt
explaining what things or
arguments need to go in the brackets.
In the case of the CONCATENATE function,
we just comma separate all
the text values we want to join.
So we're going to start by
clicking on the document number.
The next thing we need is an underscore.
We're going to put a comma, but
if you just type underscore
you will get an error.
With Excel functions,
wherever you want to reference something
that's not a cell reference or a number
you must put it in double quotes.
So we're going to open our double quotes,
type our underscore, and
close our double quotes.
We're then going to type another comma and
select our payment number.
You can use up to 255 arguments
in a CONCATENATE function,
but we only need 3 so we're going to press
Enter, and there's our payment number.
Now to copy that down we're going to click
back onto it, and the best way is to use
the fill handle, which is the small green
square in the bottom right hand corner.
You can drag it,
the only problem is with a big data
set that's going to take a while.
So an even quicker option is to
come to your fill handle and
double click, that will copy it down
to where the data on the left stops.
It only works vertically,
but it is really quick.
That was our CONCATENATE function, but
there's another alternative which is also
available in all versions of Excel,
and that's the Concatenate Operator.
It's a little easier and
a little more versatile.
So let's see how we could join our three
bank numbers together using the operator.
Now an operator's a bit like
a plus rather than a function.
So we type our equals and
then we just click on our first value and
type ampersand or and.
So we want our ABN and our account and
or check digit - really easy -
and when we press Enter,
there's all the numbers joined together.
The only problem with both the Concatenate
Operator and the CONCATENATE function
is these three values are all
sitting next to each other and yet
we have to select each one.
Whereas most functions will allow
us to just highlight the range.
Well that's what the new
CONCAT function gives us.
If you have the newer
version do this with me,
we're going to type "=con" and
select CONCAT.
We're now going to highlight
our three numbers, so
starting from H2 drag to J2 and
press Enter.
This also gets us around the limitation
of 255 as long as the numbers are all next to
each other, so a few advantages there.
One last option we're going to
look at is TEXTJOIN.
This is a new function as well, but
it has two great features that
the others don't offer us.
So we're going to use
our bank numbers again.
I'm clicking into L2 and I'm typing "=te"
down arrow and tab to select text join.
The first argument it's offering is
a delimiter, this is a separator.
So if I had a whole bunch of names and
I wanted spaces between them,
I could use space as my delimiter.
In this case, I would like a hyphen
between each set of numbers.
So I'm going to open my double quotes,
type my hyphen,
close my double quotes, then a comma.
And now it gives me another argument which
is the option to ignore empty cells, so
I wouldn't get two hyphens next to each
other if I was missing one of the numbers.
In this case it doesn't matter, but
I'm going to say true to ignore
empty cells and then type a comma.
And now it's much like the concat,
I can either individually select my items
or I can highlight the whole range.
And when I press Enter, here's my
bank details separated by hyphens,
so really, really efficient function.
Let's copy this one down.
So back onto L2 and
double click on fill handle.
So four options we looked at there,
the CONCATENATE function,
the Concatenate Operator,
the CONCAT function, and TEXTJOIN
For your optional homework try and create
these bank details with the separated
hyphens but
using the Concatenate Operator.
The solution file will have that solution
so you can check that you've got it right.